So welcome back, guys.
So now let us discuss the problem of fragmentation.
So consider a snapshot of the memory segment as shown above.
Right, you can see that the breakpoint that points to the top of each memory segment.
Now suppose the process issues the request for additional terabytes of memory.
So now you can see that there are two or three data blocks of 16 bytes each.
Right.
So together they can satisfy the new Mallak request of CISE 20 bite's.
But since they are not consecutive blocks in that Heap memory segment, these blocks together cannot
be used to provide 20 bytes of requested memory.
So this problem is called the problem of memory fragmentation.
So in general, memory fragmentation is a problem which arises when, despite having enough memory already
operating system, you still need to extend the hip region further to satisfy the new memory request.
So you can see in this example, the operating system has to extend the hip and further by pushing the
big pointer towards higher address in order to satisfy the request of 20 bytes of additional memory.
Despite the fact that thirty two bites of free memory was already present in the memory segment, but
this 32 bytes of memory could not be used to satisfy the request for 20 bites of memory because these
32 bites of memory was not contiguous in the memory segment.
So now the fragmentation can be categorized into two types the internal fragmentation and external fragmentation.
So now let us discuss what is internal and external fragmentation.
So now let us discuss the internal fragmentation so considered a snapshot of deep memory segment as
shown in the diagram, suppose the process issues the request of 10 bytes of additional memory, right.
So you can see that 30 bytes of free data block will undergo a split.
Right.
So after a split, this is the snapshot of his memory segment, so you can see that it has created a
small town by its off three day to block this eight byte of data block.
In the second diagram, which results from the block splitting is unusable memory for all mallock request,
whose size is greater than eight bytes.
In other words, a bolt of memory is internally fragmented, which results from block splitting.
So we say that this memory is internally fragmented memory now coming to the external fragmentation
as a snapshot of the memory segment in the diagram.
Now suppose process issues are requests for 20 bytes of additional memory.
So you can see that we have two, three, 16 bytes of data blocks and these two 16 bytes of data blocks
are suffice to satisfy the request of 20 bytes.
But still, we cannot allocate this request because 16 bytes are noncontiguous in the heat memory segment.
And hence cannot be Mosed, so these three blocks are set to be externally fragmented memory, which
is unusable by virtue of being noncontiguous.
So in a nutshell, Ahepe, memory management suffers from the problem of fragmentation.
So internal fragmentation happens because of block splitting, whereas external fragmentation happens
by virtue of three data blocks being not contiguous in the heat memory segment.